interrupt you honey respectfully John
Kirby is uh briefing reporters at the
White House following that Biden
Netanyahu phone call said you have said
up in this Podium several times that
that the Hamas was the obstacle to
getting some sort of seire deal calling
on Israelis to empower The Negotiator
suggest that it's changed as the US
assessment of Israel willingness to
reach a ceasefire deal uh change in the
last several weeks no it look it takes
it takes active participation and the
negotiation of both sides here um and uh
and what the president is urging he's
certainly in the call with Netanyahu
urging that that the Prime Minister
empowered his team to the maximum extent
possible to see if we can get this deal
in place and then just on the substance
the real news from the president's
statement there saying that he's going
to conditioned creat support for this uh
for Israeli the Israeli operations in
Gaza um on what Israel does first off
what is at stake what would be
potentially cut off uh from Israel for
using this war if uh if it doesn't
change
and second what do you want specifically
to see from Israel or to do to protect
civilians and humanitarian Aid workers
I'm not going to preview um uh any
potential policy decisions coming
forward um what we want to see are some
real changes uh on the Israeli side um
and um you know if we don't see changes
from their side they'll have to be
changes from our side but I won't
preview what that could look like now
they talked about what I'm sorry is that
just the body count or is there a
specific again I'm I'm in terms of
concrete steps uh what we are uh looking
to see and hope to see here uh in coming
hours and days is uh a dramatic increase
in the humanitarian assistance getting
in additional Crossings opened up uh and
a u a reduction in the violence against
civilians and certainly Aid workers we
want to uh we want to see that uh that
even as the Israelis work through their
investigation that are willing and able
to take practical immediate steps to
protect Aid workers on the ground and to
demonstrate uh that they that they have
that civilian harm mitigation in place
so again those are broad brushes I'll
let the Israelis speak to what they will
or won't do here but again in coming
hours and days we will be looking for
concrete tangible steps that they're
taking thanks John just to go back to
that point in your readout when you say
the president made clear that the US
that US policy with respect to Gaza will
be determined by our assessment of
Israel's immediate action could you
decode that for us what exactly is the
warning that's being issued here I I
think it's very clear in the language
itself Nancy um we're going to the we're
looking for concrete steps to alleviate
humanitarian suffering in Gaza again I
won't get ahead of what the Israelis
will or won't say or announce we're
looking for concrete steps to be
announced here soon um and it's not just
about the announcement of concrete steps
and changes in their policies but it's
the execution of those announcements and
those decisions and implementing them uh
and so we we obviously will will'll
watch closely and monitor uh how how
they do on the commitments that they
make and as um as I said earlier if
there's no changes to their policy and
their approaches then there's going to
have to be changes to ours I think I
think what the world wants to understand
is is the White House warning that it
may remove military aid what exactly is
the threat here I think I've I've U
stated it pretty clearly uh and I'm not
going to I'm not going to as I said
earlier I'm not going to preview steps
I'm not going to preview decisions that
haven't been made yet but um there are
things that need to be done there are
too many civilians being killed the risk
to Aid workers is unacceptable uh now we
have certain Aid organizations that are
reconsidering whether they're even going
to be able to continue operations in
Gaza while famine looms so there has to
be tangible steps let's see what they
announce let's see what they direct
let's see what they do uh but I'm not
going to get ahead of that okayy I'm
going to try this one more time because
the president I reckon you would that's
what we do the president seems to have
said to to the Prime Minister today you
know make these concrete changes or else
it's the or else that I want to make
clear here is the president threatening
to withhold Aid to Israel if they do not
make these changes the president made it
clear that our policies with respect to
Gaza uh will be dependent upon our
assessment of how well the Israelis uh
make changes and Implement changes uh to
to make the situation in Gaza better for
the Palestinian people and how much time
are you giving them to make these
changes to implement these concrete we
we would hope to see some announcements
of changes here in coming hours and days
and I'll leave it at that that's
short hours and
days I done why
today why today what why today for the
phone call why why why this apparent
shift in policy today I think look uh
president all of us but particularly the
president was certainly shaken by uh the
attack on the wck U Convoy and the Egg
workers as I said earlier um it wasn't
the only event there had been others
like that humanitarian Aid uh convoys
coming under Fire and losing people uh
and um and the president felt strongly
that it was time to to talk to prime
minister Netanyahu about his concerns
would you characterize this call as an
ultimatum I would characterize this call
as very direct very business-like uh
very professional on both sides um and
the president laid out his significant
concerns about the direction and where
things are going um and quite frankly
laid out as is clear in the readout um
uh that uh that uh we are
willing to reconsider our own policy
approaches here um dependent upon what
the Israelis do or don't do can you just
tell us who all was on the call well it
was it was a bilateral call between the
two leaders uh prime minister n Yahoo
and the president they were the only two
speakers on the on the call vice
president Harris also dialed in vice
president Harris did uh did dial in yes
Secretary of State dialed in Jake San
yes I don't know who was
uh also listening in on the Israeli side
but the but the discussion was between
the two leaders MJ so um Admiral you're
not specifying what concrete steps
Israel must take exactly I I I gave you
some uh a broad sense of it we want to
see more Crossings opened up we want to
see more trucks getting in particularly
from Jordan um we want to see tangible
steps at the mitigation of Civilian harm
uh particularly to Human Arian Aid
workers but obviously all civilians but
we want to see that they have uh that
they have moved forward on proper steps
to
deconflict with Aid workers as they move
around that the information flow U is
viable that's language we've heard for
weeks now you're not talking about uh
sort of telling us how exactly you will
measure those measurable
steps right what I said was we're going
to we're going to examine our policy
approaches based on the our assessment
of the way the Israeli side uh modifies
their behavior uh modifies their policy
and decision-making processes uh and so
first of all let's see what they say
they're going to do and then let's watch
and see how they execute to what they
say I don't want to get ahead of them
and what they on what they what they
plan to say about the changes they're
going to make but we we'll base our
policy decisions based on an assessment
of how they execute to their policy
decisions and you're not talking about
what potential US policy changes are on
the table can you say whether the
president shared that with the Prime
Minister on this phone call the
president made clear that uh that absent
changes um in the protection of
civilians on the ground absent changes
to the volume of humanitarian assistance
getting in
absent um absent any movement on
uh a a ceasefire that will allow uh
hostages to get out and more Aid to get
in absent you know a calming down um
that he will have to reconsider his own
policy choices with respect to to Gaza
and one of the seven Aid workers was
obviously a dual American citizen did
the Prime Minister offer the president
an
apology I I uh I'll let the Prime
Minister speak to his side of the
conversation uh the the I would note
that the Israeli Defense Forces um their
southern command Commander has made a
public apology for the the strike and
there was no mention of Rafa in this
readout can you talk to us about how if
that did come up and how that might have
been discussed between the two this
conversation was was focused uh
primarily on U the need to get a
temporary ceasefire in place the need
for there to be a pause in in the
fighting um so we can get the hostages
out humanitarian assistance uh the need
to see that steps are being taken to
learn from this strike and to make
changes in the way civilian harm is
mitigated from an operational
perspective and they did spend time as
the readout makes clear talking about
the very public threats from from Iran
to Israel and the president as I said
made very clear to the Prime Minister
that United States support for Israel's
ability to defend itself from a range of
threats not just Hamas uh remains
Ironclad okay Danny thanks screen thanks
just things firstly how how long did
this call uh last it was about 30
minutes or so and just going back to I
mean Jeff's question about the um you
know why why this sort of change in tone
I mean has there been growing
frustration on the part of President
Biden that previous um messaging to
prime minister Netanyahu just doesn't
seem to have gotten through yes there's
been growing
frustration thank you so much Karim John
one question on Israel and another on
Venezuela we saw in the past president
uh Biden pushing Netanyahu to protect
civilians but how much words really
matter here when on actions the same day
of the attack on the humanitarian words
the US was approving more bones to
Israel do you we are now six month into
the war how much the US actions are
actually encouraging Israel to not do
enough to protect civilians yeah look I
I'm I'm kind of glad the question came
up uh because I would tell you when I've
seen press reporting you know about the
uh about the uh the arm sales and that
kind of thing and I I would just remind
you that that
uh it with the exception of the
immediate two months after the attack we
haven't really sent emergency aid and
Military assistance to to Israel that
was in the first couple of months but
what you're seeing here uh is the result
of a a process of foreign military sales
to Israel that takes years uh and a lot
of this material that's been reported
publicly was notified to Congress many
many months if not years ago and are in
the train to get to Israel I think it's
important to remember as I tried to
mention in the last answer that Israel
still has a lot of threats it faces I
mean we're all focused on Hamas and I
understand that but uh they still face
active threats throughout the region
including from Iran and the United State
still has an iron clag commitment to
help uh Israel with its self-defense and
so a lot of these articles includ
including the 2000lb bombs and the F35
so that's those are things that have
been long in the train and not tied the
S the foreign military sales process was
not tied to this conflict can I have one
more on on Venezuela quick because
yesterday Nicolas maduru enacted a law
creating a province of Venezuela in
Guyana and he accused the United States
of building secret military bases in ex
a CUO so uh what is your reaction in is
the us considering bu base to support gu
to defend our sovereignty there's no
plans for a secret military base and
we've said many times that there's an
1899 arbitral ruling about the Border uh
between Guyana and Venezuela and we want
both sides to respect that ruling and to
do it
peacefully thank you um you said we
would hope to see an announcement of
changes I'm wondering if that is just
hope or is it an expectation is it based
on a commitment we expect that the the
will be uh some um some announcements
coming from Israel in the coming hours
and days but I want to respect their
right to manage that process on their
own okay and um was there any update
given uh by the Prime Minister on what
exactly happened with the world Central
Kitchen Envoy they they didn't talk
about the actual strike in great detail
that the Prime Minister uh did reiterate
um as his military has reiterated that
this was on them um that the the uh
investigation was was concluding um that
he looked forward to to seeing it and
that you know he would take appropriate
actions to make sure something like that
couldn't happen again I mean they did
obviously they talked about it of course
uh but did they go through Point by
point the investigations findings no
because I think the prime minister's
office is still evaluating um the actual
investigation results and just to try to
get a technical understanding is you
described the very long process of uh
supplying arms uh to to Israel if this
contingency isn't met and there is a
change in US policy how easy or hard
would it be to um slow down or change
shipments to Israel based on current law
and all of the requirements and all the
things you just described yeah again I
don't want to get ahead of where we are
uh let's see what uh the Israeli side
does and says and what they Implement
and where they go before we talk about
actual policy decisions and I'm
certainly not going to close down
decision space for the president of the
United States he gets to make those
decisions uh but I mean obviously as
commander-in-chief and yes the foreign
military sales certainly is uh is
supported by legislation but uh but
there are certain authorities that you
can do to manage that but again let's
not get ahead of where we are uh this is
really about uh seeing what the Israelis
say they're going to do and then act on
on those on those changes good admiral
has the US lost its leverage with prime
minister nahu
you know I keep getting this question
about leverage uh Israel is an ally and
a friend and a partner uh and the
president believes strongly and has for
his entire public career in the security
of the Israeli people and the uh and the
longevity of the Israeli State and
that's not going to change uh and uh I
can say unequivocally and I don't think
the Prime Minister would mind me saying
here that in the call today the Prime
Minister reiterated his thanks to
President Biden and this Administration
for the support that that we have
continued to provide Israel it's
longstanding it was before the 7th of
October and it is now uh and that
supports uh that support's going to
continue but again um with respect to
Gaza uh we need to see certain changes
uh uh and if we don't then we'll have to
consider changes to our own policy but
it's not about it's not about leverage
it's about the relationship and it's
about The credibility I would even say
the unique credibility that this
particular president has in Israel and
with Israeli leadership based on his
long Public Service of support talk
about this relationship do you think the
prime minister is really listening it
was uh I think it was evident in the
phone call today uh it was uh a good
discussion direct no question but a good
discussion and uh and I I believe uh the
president made very clear his concerns
and the Prime Minister acknowledged
those concerns in terms of the timing of
this call we understand that this call
was set up after the strike on the world
Central Kitchen uh workers would you say
if this call was a direct result of that
was that the reason behind the call yes
and then one one last thing response to
Jose andr Chef Andre says that the
Convoy was deliberately targeted any
response from the US on that again I I
haven't seen the Israeli investigation
uh they have said themselves publicly
after a preliminary investigation uh
that there was no deliberate targeting
of wck and and Chef Andre um they uh
they're working their way through now in
independent follow on Investigation
which I understand is very very close to
complete um uh the Prime Minister just
talked about it broadly um and
reiterated today the Prime Minister
reiterated today that there was no
deliberate targeting of uh of that that
Aid Convoy good night thank you two
questions uh Senator Co who was very
close to the president said that we have
reached a moment where arms restriction
to Israel should be considered Senator
Warren also said that we have Israel has
violated our own laws are they wrong in
their assessment the president I think
it's clear in in the readout Nadia that
the the president has has made it clear
today um that if we don't see uh changes
to the way uh the IDF is treating
innocent civilians and Aid workers and
flowing the humanitarian assistance that
uh he's going to have to reconsider our
Gaza policy so I mean he was very direct
with the Prime Minister about that I'm
not going to close down his decision
space as satisfying as that may be for
some of you I can't do that but he made
it very clear that we need to see some
changes on the Israeli side I want to
ask you about very disturbing
investigative report by an Israeli
journalist who said that uh is the White
House aware of an AI program called
lavender that's been used by the Israeli
Army to Target operative in Gaza in what
they called a Kill Zone where this
program has only 20 seconds of human
supervision and it Leed to the death of
thousands of women and children in Gaza
do you think are you aware of it number
one and second does the White House
believe that AI can be used in this way
without supervision I'm not aware of it
you're going to have to let me take that
question we'll get back to you thank you
so much John I'm going to start with the
trilateral summit then I'm going to move
on to Rhonda first of all uh looking
ahead to the trilateral summit next week
what are some of the priorities and we
recently heard the Filipino Ambassador
say that the US Japan and the
Philippines are going to start joint
Patrols in the South China see very soon
can you confirm that and give us any
details I believe the Pentagon will have
more to say about that this afternoon uh
okay uh you have been listening to John
Kirby he is the US National Security
Council spokesman uh he is the one who
is often the face of the administration
on uh many of the Gaza Israel questions
by the media and he was just briefing
the White House Press Corps following
the phone call between Joe Biden and
Benjamin Netanyahu so this is kind of
how these things work let's bring in uh
M director of the gulf studies Center at
Qatar University I was saying it's how
these things work usually step one you
get the read you get the headline right
what did the two leaders say and then
step two you get the media gets briefed
and you kind of get the explanation yes
uh the official version of the
explanation behind the headlines would
you make of everything we've just heard
in previous phone calls um the me this
kind of press conference used to explain
what happened and sometime def minimize
the level of yeah the statement or the
discussion saying you know it wasn't as
being reflected in the media what I
noticed that the language used by the
spokeperson is actually reflecting to
some extent what's been basically leaked
in the last uh two hours uh as we would
talk you know talk about change the
Israeli commitment you know the Israelis
you know that's that's a word we heard a
lot there needs to be changed there need
to be changed and and that that's that's
something new previously uh you know the
spokesperson of the White House SP
National Security or or the Department
of State they used to diffuse the the
level of the strength of that statut now
we see it's actually consistent at least
now we are about 3 hours the the the
statement Washington are consistent that
itself telling yeah it's their way of of
of um sort of
nudging uh how the media is going to
frame a certain event and this time as
you say sometimes they'll dial it back
they'll modulate what the headline says
this time they're saying no no no you
read this right yes the US president
essentially excoriated the Israeli Prime
Minister and he told him you have got to
change something now he was asked on a
timeline by when do these changes need
to happen he said hours or days correct
and and to to to lengthen that this the
the reflection in the Israeli media they
talk about what Netanyahu commitment to
Biden in that phone call it seems that
there were list of things Netanyahu was
asked
he um gave a promise that this will
happen and now the Israeli media they
talked about you know they Tred to um
predict
what are these kind of commitments you
know and and they put the same question
you have said for how long and when when
do we expect this to happen yeah it
seems that I mean looking at the
language used by the White House so far
it seems things that these days and and
hours maybe yeah and and I think it's
fair to say when the White House puts
out messaging like this then then um the
Israeli Prime Minister the counterpart
is going to have to give something yeah
and there's another interesting thing
it's talks talking about media seiz fire
that is also was was was was was
mentioned to improve the humanitarian
thing that is a new language and
immediate seize fire to prove the
humanitarian situation okay I have to
run uh there's so much news to get to
but thank you so much mry for joining us
in the studio